Christmas had been so fair, if not balmy, that Oriole Putnam, for the
first time spending the principal New England holidays at Littleport,
scarcely expected the black frost that followed close on the heels of
New Year's Day.

Indeed, the tale of that local celebrity, "the oldest inhabitant," was
that for forty years previous the bays and inlets about Littleport had
not been so chained by the Frost King as they were now.

Littleport Harbor was frozen over so solidly that a Government
ice-breaker was sent to open a channel for the Paulmouth packet to get
in and out of the port. This channel, however, did not offer a safe way
for Oriole to reach Harbor Island Light in Nat Jardin's power dory.

"And I _am_ so worried about Uncle Nat's rheumatism, and whether Ma
Stafford has recovered from that felon she had on her finger," Oriole
told Lyddy Ann, the maid-of-all-work at Mrs. Rebecca Joy's house and
Oriole's confidante and friend. "I just _must_ find some way of getting
over to the island."

During the open season, and ever since she had come to stay with Mrs.
Joy, in the big old Dexter mansion on State Street, Oriole had driven
the dory back and forth between the port and Harbor Light at least once
a week. To be debarred from this habit and association was really a
trial for the girl.

Oriole was an active and ingenious girl, and this, her first winter
away from her semi-tropical home near Bahia, Brazil, was a most
marvelous experience for her. The fun and frolic to be had in her
present environment was neglected in no particular by the girl.

Although she was quite familiar with roller-skating, for the first time
that she could remember she now saw ice skating. It was not a difficult
matter for the girl to become proficient upon ice skates.

Before the bay was frozen over, as it now was, she had learned to skate
on a shallow pond near Mrs. Joy's, in company with Minnie and Flossy
Payne and other members of the Busy Bees, as their school society was
called.